PMAP Manual

v1: 2013-11-05: first version

Download the source to a directory of your choosing (currently no install script is provided).
Assuming the dependencies are met, the pipeline can be run by invoking (PMAP_dir)/PMAP.py directly,
where PMAP_dir is the directory containing the source.

The minimum science files required are: FUV image & HI image. Optional: Oxygen abundance or metallicity map.
Certain physical parameters are required in the configuration file per target (see below).

1) Run: (PMAP_dir)/PMAP.py -c configFile
This creates a configuration file configFile (can be any name). The file contains default values, but
has to be edited to add: target distance, foreground extinction, position angle, inclination, galaxy central coordinates,
R25 radius and a dust model (e.g. power law slope in 12+log(O/H) dex per kpc). 
Additionally, the input file names are needed as well as scaling factors for each file. This allows the use
of, for example, a GALEX FUV file and a THINGS moment 0 map without pre-processing.

2) Run the pipeline: (PMAP_dir)/PMAP.py configFile
The pipeline will run and produce .csv and .vot files.
The main results file is called configFile_Results.csv by default.
No plotting routines are provided, but the results may be read by, for example, TopCat (the VO Table).
At this time, the csv file is not technically comma-separated but space-separated, which should not pose
a problem as long as upon reading the delimiter can be specified.
Erroneous input parameters are usually easily spotted (if they didn't crash the pipeline already) since the output values
will be clearly unphysical.

Output values:

PDRID
  Internal numbering of candidate PDRs

HIID
  Each unique PDR may have multiple HI patches, numbered in HIID
  
rhoHI
  Separation between the central UV source and the HI patch, cut off at the value specified in the
  configuration file (500 pc by default)

sRhoHI
  Estimated error in rhoHI (fixed by default)
  
Rgal
  Galactocentric radius of the PDR in kpc
  
G0
  Incident UV flux G0 calculated at the location of each HI patch (unique for each HIID)
  
Contrast
  Source contrast of G0 / background UV level, estimated from the background level at the first local
  minimum after the source flux has dropped at least 50% (percentage value configurable)

dd0
  Dust-to-gas ratio derived from the input dust model
  
sdd0
  Error in dd0
  
NHI
  HI column density at the HI patch location
  
sNHI
  Uncertainty in NHI (fixed; configurable)
  
aperture
  Aperture used to measure the UV flux in arcsec: the first local minimum after the source flux
  has dropped at least 50% (configurable)
  
mean_at_r
  Mean flux value at the aperture radius used to calculate the source contrast (in UV map input units)
  
flux
  FUV flux (UV map input units). Note that if the input map is in default GALEX counts per second, the
  configurable conversion factor should convert the map values to standard flux units of
  erg sec-1 cm-2 Angstrom-1. However, G0 is dimensionless.
  
sflux
  Error in the FUV flux
  
nTot
  Total hydrogen volume density (cm-3)
  
snTot
  Estimated uncertainty in nTot
  

  

  
